# Introduction to Data Analytics and Machine Learning with Python

The most flexible ecosystem for large quantities of data,
Python, is the future in data analytics.


## Why choose this course?

Our popular Introduction to Data Analytics and Machine Learning with Python
short course is designed to open the vast world of data analytics and machine
learning to people without prior experience in the field.  We will be using the
Python programming language, which is the current de-facto standard for data
analytics today, to explore data and build machine learning knowledge.  The
course assumes familiarity with programming, and, to some extent, with the
basics of Python 3; yet, the course covers the data analytics field from its
basics.

We will use the Python 3 programming language for the course's examples,
exercises and lectures.  Python 3 is the last iteration of the Python language,
there will be no version 4 or 5.  It is therefore useful, and future proof, to
learn the tools and techniques we teach in the course in Python 3.

As this is an introductory course, you are not expected to have any data
analytics or machine learning experience.  The only requirements are successful
completion of Introduction to programming with Python or comparable programming
knowledge.  Mathematical concepts required are GCSE maths, notably sampling,
graphs, histograms, trigonometry and different averages at GCSE level are
required to understand the course material.  The [GCSE guide website][gcse] has
a list of what mathematical concepts are present within the GCSE, including
practical examples of every concept.

[gcse]: http://www.gcseguide.co.uk/mathsgcseguide.htm

The Introduction to Data Analytics and Machine Learning with Python short
course is taught over 10 weeks in the evenings, allowing you to continue with
full-time employment.  Studying one of our short courses is a fantastic way to
learn new skills and can be used as a great way to further your career.


## Course overview

The course is for students who already have a working knowledge of Python
and/or extensive programming experience.  You will learn the state of the art
in data analytics and machine learning Python libraries, libraries which are
developed and maintained by big companies including Google, Facebook and
Twitter.

As both data analytics and machine learning fields are vast and fast expanding,
we will focus our efforts on grasping the foundations.  The foundations which
we will go through could enable you to get a junior position as a data analyst
and/or machine learning engineer.  We will tackle the stable environments
within the ever changing data analytics field, and from there discuss how
attempts to solve the current big problems are made.

Libraries that will be taught in this course:

- Jupyter Notebook
- NumPy
- matplotlib
- pandas
- SciPy
- Scikit-learn
- Scikit-image

At the end of the course we will also have a teaser of what more advanced, and
ever changing, research libraries are - and what they perform differently.  In
other words, we will understand the foundations and then try to reason where
research is going towards.


## What will I learn?

**Jupyter notebook**: the data engineers' IDE of choice.  A web application
that allows you to create and share documents that contain live code,
equations, visualizations and explanatory text.  In data science getting the
result is as important as presenting it in an appealing manner, this is where
Jupyter shines.

**NumPy**: the fundamental package for scientific computing with Python.
Provides data storage which is by magnitude more efficient than plain Python
variables.  NumPy contains a powerful N-dimensional array object, sophisticated
(broadcasting) functions, linear algebra abstractions, Fourier transforms, and
random number generators.

**matplotlib**: visualization and plotting.  A plotting library to visualize
and understand different types of data.  With some tuning it produces
publication quality figures and can also be used to do image manipulation.
matplotlib can generate plots, histograms, power spectra, bar charts, error
charts, scatter plots and many more figures.

**pandas**: exploratory data analysis.  An easy to use data structuring and
data analysis library, It has advanced data manipulation capabilities and can
use data objects in the same way we use databases.  It can also import and
export data from a vast number of formats.  State-of-the-art tool for loading,
storing, cleaning, transforming, merging and reshaping data.

**SciPy**: Scientific Python.  Provides many user-friendly and efficient
numerical routines for statistics, signal processing, and numerical
optimisation.  This library builds on top of NumPy and makes heavy use of all
the its.  We will focus on the `scipy.stats` sub-package, which provides
distributions, and random number sampling.  SciPy is vast and we will not look
into the parts unrelated from machine learning, e.g. signal processing.

**scikit-learn**: built on top of `NumPy`, `SciPy`, and `matplotlib` is one of
the most widely used machine learning libraries in industry and research.  It
covers a truly impressive number of machine learning techniques and methods,
some of which include: classification, regression, clustering, dimensionality
reduction, model selection, and data preprocessing.  With `scikit-learn` we
will train and evaluate learning algorithms.  We will see data validation and
cross-validation, and how to automate these validation techniques to improve
the accuracy of our learning algorithms.

**Scikit-Image**: processing of images as data.  One of the bigger struggles
with data science is loading data, and loading data out of media formats is
often the most problematic.  We will explore the `scikit-image` library as an
example of how Python reduces this struggle by small and specifically crafted
libraries for specific media types.


### By the end of the course, I will be able to

Use the data environment of Python (PyData) to load, clean, explore and present
data.  Including merging and graphing, and presenting results in an explanatory
manner.

Draft, train and evaluate a machine learning model on data.  Including
designing features from the data, evaluating feature importance, up to
hyperparameter tuning of the model itself.


## Eligibility

### Prerequisite knowledge

Applicants must have successfully completed the Introduction to programming
with Python or have Python to a similar standard.

As this is an introductory data analytics course you are not expected to have
any data analytics or machine learning experience.

Knowledge of mathematical concepts at GCSE level is essential.  Have a look at
the [GCSE guide website][gcse] for the mathematical concepts therein.

[gcse]: http://www.gcseguide.co.uk/mathsgcseguide.htm

### English requirements

Applicants must be proficient in written and spoken English.

## Teaching & assessment

Informal assessment through optional assignments.  And a final project that
will solve a real world problem using real world data, applying the techniques
taught during the course.

